---
layout: page
title: "ECE/ME 179P: Introduction to Robotics: Planning and Kinematics"
permalink: "/179P"
---

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Description</h3>

Motion planning and kinematics topics with an emphasis on geometric reasoning, matrix computations, and computer programming.
- **Motion planning:** sensor-based planning, configuration spaces, decomposition and sampling methods, and graph-based algorithms.
- **Kinematics:** reference frames, rotations and displacements, and inematic motion models.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Learning outcomes</h3>

Ability to:
- Formulate and solve planning and kinematics problems in robotics.
- Apply knowledge of geometry, graph algorithms, and linear algebra to robotic systems.
- Use the Python programming language to solve engineering problems.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Prerequisites</h3>

- **Linear algebra:** ECE 130C or ME 17 (ECE 130C may be taken concurrently and is offered Spring 2025, course 12402).
- **Coding:** ECE 3 (Python) or ENGR 3 (MATLAB).

Students that have not taken these specific classes can reach out to the instructor if they are interested in enrolling in the class.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Staff</h3>

- **Tobia Marcucci** (instructor)
    - Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
    - Email: marcucci@ucsb.edu
    - Office: Harold Frank Hall Rm 5155
- **Utso Majumder** (teaching assistant)
    - Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
    - Email: utso@ucsb.edu

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Lectures</h3>

- Monday and Wednesday from 2:00pm to 3:15pm (starting March 31)
- Room 387-1011

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Office hours</h3>

- Times and location to be decided

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Textbooks</h3>

The course will follow the book "[Lectures on Robotic Planning and Kinematics](https://fbullo.github.io/lns/)" by Francesco Bullo and Stephen L. Smith.
The book is freely available in PDF at the link above.
Approximately, each week will cover one chapter of the book.

Other relevant textbooks for the course are:
- "[Planning Algorithms](https://lavalle.pl/planning/)" by Steven M. LaValle. Freely available in PDF.
- "[Principles of Robot Motion; Theory, Algorithms, and Implementations](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262033275/principles-of-robot-motion/)" by Howie Choset, Kevin M. Lynch, Seth Hutchinson, George A. Kantor, Wolfram Burgard, Lydia E. Kavraki, and Sebastian Thrun.
- "[Robot Motion Planning](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4615-4022-9)" by Jean-Claude Latombe. Freely available in PDF for UCSB students.
- "[Robotics; Modelling, Planning and Control](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-84628-642-1)" by Bruno Siciliano, Lorenzo Sciavicco, Luigi Villani, and Giuseppe Oriolo. Freely available in PDF for UCSB students.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Grading</h3>

Your grade will be assigned roughly according to the following percentages:
- Homework 35%
- Midterm 25%
- Final 40%

Please note that these weights are approximate, and we reserve the right to change them later.

Please note also that:
- If answers are not accompanied by satisfactory explanations (e.g., all intermediate steps or clearly readable handwriting), no credit will be given.
- Exams and quizzes will be closed book and closed notes.
You may prepare a cheat sheet in your own handwriting, consisting of a two-sided sheet (letter size).
- No calculators, personal computers, tablets, or cellphones are allowed during the exams.
- Homework will typically be due on Wednesday afternoon.
No late homework will be accepted without prior approval.
Approval is automatic the first two times you ask: to announce late homework you must send me email by midnight the day before (typically Tuesday).
Late homework will automatically lose 20% of the grade, and no late homework will be accepted after the midnight of the following Monday.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Software</h3>

Some of the homework will require working knowledge of Python.
If required, the office hours during the first week will be devoted to an introduction to Python.
Students that are familiar with different programming langauages (e.g., MATLAB) will be encouraged to participate.
Help will be provided to the students that do not have access to a Python installation, provided that they contact the instructor in a timely manner.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Collaborations and external resources</h3>

You are encouraged to work with other students on your assignments, and to help other students complete their assignments.
If you do so, please be sure to clearly write the name(s) of your collaborator(s) in the solutions that you submit.
Please also specify if you collaborated on the entire assignment or only on specific problems.
Remember that the material you turn in for course credit must be a fair representation of your work, and you are responsible for understanding, being able to explain, and duplicate the work you submit.
We suggest that the study groups are composed of at most three students.

In the solution of the homework, you are discouraged to use any material that is not the class textbook or the other textbooks mentioned above.
If you decide to use additional material (e.g., Wikipedia or stack/math overflow) please clearly specify that in the solutions that you submit.
The use of AI-enhanced tools (such as ChatGPT) is prohibited.

<h3 style="color: maroon;">Academic integrity</h3>

We adhere to the [UCSB Academic Integrity Policy](https://studentconduct.sa.ucsb.edu/academic-integrity).
